# PANet
A Progressive Aggregation Network for Camouflaged Object Detection
Camouflaged Object Detection (COD) is a particularly challenging task in computer vision, focused on identifying and segmenting camouflaged objects that are intricately integrated with their surroundings, making them difficult to distinguish. The main challenges in COD arise from the intrinsic similarity between camouflaged objects and their environments, as well as the disruption of object edges. To address these challenges, we propose the Progressive Aggregation Network for Camouflaged Object Detection (PANet), inspired by the human process of repeatedly and carefully examining hard-to-distinguish objects in daily life. The proposed method, PANet, consists of a Progressive Intra-Aggregation Block (PIAB) and a Progressive Guidance Aggregation Decoder (PGAD). The PIAB utilizes self-attention mechanisms and multi-scale receptive fields to progressively strengthen the connections between intra-features and enhance them in a targeted manner. The PGAD, equipped with a Mask Guidance Module (MGM) and a Feature Guidance Module (FGM), directs the network to focus on critical regions, such as edges and texture details. By performing hierarchical aggregation and decoding of features at different scales in both horizontal and vertical directions, it facilitates synchronized information exchange and flow. Extensive experiments conducted on four widely-used datasets and four evaluation metrics demonstrate that our method outperforms 26 state-of-the-art methods. 

The code will be released after the paper accepted
